1 Mastermind
Generate a random four digit number. The player has to keep inputting four digit numbers until they guess the randomly generated number. After each unsuccessful try it should say
how many numbers they got correct, but not which position they got right. At the end of the game should congratulate the user and say how many tries it took.

2 Averages
Make a program that asks the user for a series of numbers until they either want to output the average or quit the program.

3 Email validator
Make a program to check whether an email address is valid or not.
For instance, you could make sure that there are no spaces, that there is an @ symbol and a dot somewhere after it. Also check the length of the parts at the start, and that the end parts
of the address are not blank.

4 Password reset program
Only accept a new password if it is:
1. At least eight characters long
2. Has lower case and upper case letters.
The password reset program should also make the user input their new password twice so that the computer knows that the user has not made any mistakes when typing their new password.

5 Basic lists
Make a program that lets a user input a series of names into a list. The program should then ask the user whether they want to print out the list in the original order, or in reverse

6 Max and min list
Write a program that lets the user input a list of numbers. Every time they input a new number, the program should give a message about what the maximum and minimum numbers
in the list are.

7 Letter list
Write a program that lets a user choose a letter. The program will then find all the words beginning with that letter in a list and print them out. It should also say how many words it found

8 RPG character/Pokemon stat creator
Make a program which will randomly create a character’s stats based on several rules set by the user. Have it generate a class, gender, strength/magic/dexterity points, and extra abilities
or trades. Have the program save it to a file which can then be printed out so that it can be used in a game.

9 Quiz Maker
Make an application which takes various questions from a file, picked randomly, and puts together a quiz for students, and then reads a key to grade the quizzes. Each quiz can be different

10 Check if Palindrome
Checks if the string entered by the user is a palindrome. A palindrome is a word that reads the same forwards as it does backwards like “racecar”.

11 Count Words in a String
Counts the number of individual words in a string. For added complexity, the program could read these strings in from a text file and generate a summary.

12 Pig Latin
Pig Latin is a game of alterations played on the English language game. To create the Pig Latin form of an English word the initial consonant sound is transposed to the end of the word
and an ay is affixed (Ex.: “banana” would yield anana-bay)

13 Count Vowels
Enter a string and the program counts the number of vowels in the text. For added complexity have it report a sum of each vowel found

14 Unit Converter (temperature, currency, volume, mass and more)
Converts various units between one another. The user enters the type of unit being entered, the type of unit they want to convert to and then the value. The program will then make
the conversion.

15 Change Return Program
The user enters a cost and then the amount of money given. You should write a program that works out what denominations of change should be given in pounds, 50p, 20p, 10p etc.

16 Shopping list
Create a program that will keep track of items for a shopping list. The program should allow you to keep adding new items. You should also be able to record which shop you are going
to visit for the item.

17 Hangman
Create a version of the Hangman game using Lists. The program should ask for the word to guess and the number of chances to be given.
For every guess you should update the user with which letters they have guessed incorrectly, as well as replacing the letters in the guess word with the ones they have guessed correctly.
You should also show the user how many chances they have left.

18 Squares
Create a program that will ask the user for a number and then print out a list of numbers from 1 to the number entered and the square of the number. For example, if the user entered ‘3’
then the program would output:
1 squared is 1
2 squared is 4
3 squared is 9

19 Times tables
Create a program which will produce the times table for a number entered by the user
eg if the user enters ‘2’ it should produce:
1 x 2 = 2
2 x 2 = 4
3 x 2 = 6

20 Binary/Hexidecimal/Decimal
Create a program which will convert a given decimal up to 255 into its 8-bit binary equivalent.